# Food-Order-queuing-system

The system architecture includes a frontend application, two backed servers, a messaging broker, sandwich API for communication and database for data storage. For frontend application we are using React JS framework. On the backend the servers are developed with NodeJS. We have used RabbitMQ messaging broker to maintain the order request. To store the sandwich request data and the order status in a MongoDB database.

In the system the frontend applications's role is to facilitate the user with a list of sandwiches with the details about the sandwich. User use the ordering option to order a sandwich. After completing the order the user gets an order ID. The user later can use that order ID to check the status of the order. To role of the sandwich API is to maintain the communication between the frontend application and the backend server. The server A's role is to receive the task from the fronted using the sandwich API. Server A later saves the order info to the database and sends the order to Rabbit MQ task queue. Server A also receives the order ready status through RabbitMQ from the Server B and saves the status to database. Server B's role is to receive the order from the RabbitMQ queue and sending a ready notification to the RabbitMQ queue. RabbitMQ maintains a task queue on the both server ends. 

The systems data communication process starts from the frontend where the user makes a sandwich request. The order ID, sandwich ID and status of the order is then send to the Node server using sandwich API. Node server A receives the order data and saves the data with status received to database. Server A then sends the order details to rabbitMQ. RabbitMQ places the order info on a queue. Node server B takes the order info from the rabbitMQ queue. Later the node server B place the order info with status ready to the rabbitMQ queue. Node Server A takes the ready notification of the order with the order info from the rabbitMQ queue and saves the status of the order to the database. The user can then check the order status on the frontend. User gives the order id to get the status of the order. User's request is then send to the server A using sandwich API. Server A checks the status from the database and sends the status of the order to frontend application using the sandwich API.  

In the system all the components are performing smoothly. We can say that the system is performing up to the mark and meeting the purpose of the task. There are also some weakness like we haven't added any authentications in system but Sever A and the Server B is secure.
